In this section let's take a look at how images are managed in WordPress and we'll also see how to customize
image sizes and also how to customize other things about images.
So let's go to Media.
And here we have some images. Let's upload a new one.
So I have some images here.
So let's upload this one.
So whenever you upload an image in the media or in a post or anywhere in WorldPress your image will
be resized into three sizes.
So if we take a look at the Settings and Media. We have the three sizes here and we can change the width and
height of each one.
So we've the thumbnail, thumbnail will be cropped to 150x150. So no matter how large the image you uploaded
it will always be 150x150. The Medium and Large will not be cropped.
They will be scaled.
So the Medium will have a maximum width of 300 or a maximum height of 300. But it won't be 300x
300.
It will maintain the aspect ratio. So it'll just be scaled and same for the Large.
And we also have another size which is not listed here. And it's called MediumLarge and this one has
a maximum width and a maximum height of I think 678 pixels.
And then your original image and the resized versions will be saved in the wp-content folder.
So let's go to the wp-content. And inside the uploads file they will be organized with the year
and the month.
So this is the one that we just uploaded. So we have the 150x150 version. And we have 300x173.
So this is the medium size and it was scaled
with a maximum width of 300.
But as you can see it maintained the aspect ratio, it was not cropped.
And then we have, this is the MediumLarge, it's 768. And then the large and this is the original image.
Great.
So take a look now at some of theWordPress functions that we can use in order to retrieve information about
images.
So let's go maybe in the header or something.
Let's open PHP. And let's go to the Media again and see the ID of the image that we just uploaded.
It's in the URL.
And let's try to var_dump() some functions. So we've a function called wp_get_attachment_imagesrc().
So this one takes the "id" of the image and the "size". So let's say we want the "large". And let's ignore
this last argument.
And let's take a look.
In the header we'll find it here.
So we have an array.
And the first item in the array is the URL for the image.
So we have the URL in the year and month and then the name of the image, the large one as you
can see the size here.
And then we have the second item in the array is the width of the image. And then the height of the image.
And these are the width and the height after the image has been resized.
So let's take a look at another function.
Let's take a look at wp_get_attachment_image_url(). And it also takes the same arguments.
And as you can see it just retuns the URL without any of the other extra information.
We also have wp_get_attachment_url() without "image". And this one will get to the URL but now
it gets the URL of the original image not the resized one.
So it actually don't receive a second argument for the "size".
You can just pass it the "id". And this is equivalent to calling the attachment_image_url().
And a size of "full". So the size of "full" will always get the original image.
Let's have another function which is wp_get_attachment_image() and it also takes an "id" and a "sidze". So let's
save this. And this will actually get the actual image.
So I've the "full" size here, let's get a maybe "medium" size.
And let's inspect. And if you take a look at the image HTML element that it added here. It's not just an
IMG tag with a "src".  It's actually a responsive image which uses the "srcset" attribute and
also the "sizes" attribute.
And if you're not familiar with responsive images we'll have a separate lecture for that.
But just keep in mind now that when you output an image in WordPress it will output a responsive image and
not just an image with the "src" attribute and the "size" that you chose.
And we take a look at this in detail in another lecture.
So let's in the next lecture add custom image sizes.
So we have seen that we have some default sizes here in the settings that we can change.
But what if we want to keep these unchanged and add other custom sizes.
WordPress has an API to do that. So let's take a look at how to add custom sizes in the next lecture.